# HappyGAPI

A Clojure library for calling [Google APIs](https://developers.google.com/apis-explorer); gsheets, drive, bigquery and so on.


## Rationale

HappyGAPI generates source code that defines functions for calling GAPI,
so you don't have to!
The discovery based approach is inspired by [clj-gapi](https://github.com/ianbarber/clj-gapi).

The advantages of generating source code are:
1. Navigate to source
2. See all available resources and methods
3. Clear exceptions on failure

HappyGAPI accepts data instead of an objects.


## Usage

This library is alpha, expect changes.

Add the dependency to the project file:

```clojure
[happygapi "0.1.0"]
```

Require `happygapi.<api>.<resource>` in the code:

```clojure
(ns my.ns
  (:require [happygapi.sheets.spreadsheets :as gsheets]
            [happy.oauth2 :as oauth2]))
```

Call the api:

```clojure
(gsheets/get$ (oauth2/auth!) {:spreadsheetId "xyz"})

(gsheets/values-batchUpdate$ (oauth2/auth!)
                             {:spreadsheetId spreadsheet-id}
                             {:valueInputOption "USER_ENTERED"
                              :data             [{:range  "Sheet1"
                                                  :values [[1 2 3]
                                                           [4 5 6]]}]})
```

Functions are generated according to this pattern:

```
(happygapi.<api>.<resource>/<?subresource(s)>-<method> auth params ?body)
```

Where `auth` is a map to apply to the request, `params` and `body` align with REST documentation.
For example see [batchUpdate](https://developers.google.com/sheets/api/reference/rest/v4/spreadsheets.values/batchUpdate).

I plan to add json-schema validation to the body soon.


### Authorization

The `auth` argument can be one of:

```clojure
{}                                                   ; anonymous
{:query-params {"key" api-key}}                      ; api-key
{:headers {"Authorization" (str "Bearer " token)}}   ; oauth2 token
```

The `auth` argument is merged into the request.
You can specify additional request options if you want to.

The `happy.oauth2` namespace provides a convenient way to authorize requests.
It needs access to `secret.json` which can be downloaded from the Google Console.
Do not add this file to source control, keep it secured.
Follow the "Getting started" Google API instructions to create an App.

Calling `(auth!)` will start a singleton oauth2 listener.
If you prefer to start one with non-default configuration see `(start! config)`.
If you prefer to use a system graph instead of a singleton, see `(start*)`.
If you prefer to run your own oauth2 listener, pass in `auth` from some other source.


## Contributing

Issues, pull requests, and suggestions are welcome.


## Building

The api namespaces can be generated by running `happy.lion/-main`

```
lein run
```


## Testing

To run the test you need to download `secret.json` from the Google console.

```
lein test
```


## License

Copyright © 2020 Timothy Pratley

This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the
terms of the Eclipse Public License 2.0 which is available at
http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0.

This Source Code may also be made available under the following Secondary
Licenses when the conditions for such availability set forth in the Eclipse
Public License, v. 2.0 are satisfied: GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version, with the GNU Classpath Exception which is available
at https://www.gnu.org/software/classpath/license.html.
